Optimize writes: Use Telegraf to pre-process data before writing (#5282)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud-serverless/write-data/best-practices/optimize-writes.md

compress the data with `gzip` and set the `Content-Encoding` header to `gzip`.

{{% influxdb/custom-timestamps %}}
{{% code-placeholders "BUCKET_NAME|API_TOKEN|ORG_NAME" %}}
{{% code-callout "Content-Encoding: gzip" "orange" %}}

```bash
echo "mem,host=host1 used_percent=23.43234543 1641024000
mem,host=host2 used_percent=26.81522361 1641027600
mem,host=host1 used_percent=22.52984738 1641031200
mem,host=host2 used_percent=27.18294630 1641034800" | gzip > system.gzip \

curl --request POST "https://{{< influxdb/host >}}/api/v2/write?org=ORG_NAME&bucket=BUCKET_NAME&precision=s" \
  --header "Authorization: Token API_TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8" \
  --header "Content-Encoding: gzip" \
  --data-binary @system.gzip
```

{{% /code-callout %}}
{{% /code-placeholders %}}
{{% /influxdb/custom-timestamps %}}

Replace the following:

- {{% code-placeholder-key %}}`ORG_NAME`{{% /code-placeholder-key %}}: the name of your [organization](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/admin/organizations/)
- {{% code-placeholder-key %}}`BUCKET_NAME`{{% /code-placeholder-key %}}: the name of the [bucket](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/admin/buckets/) to write data to

> - **`token`**: a [token](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/admin/tokens/) with _write_ access to the specified bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{% code-placeholder-key %}}`DATABASE_TOKEN`{{% /code-placeholder-key %}}: a [token](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/admin/tokens/) with _write_ access to the specified bucket.
```

## Write multiple data points in one request

To write multiple lines in one request, each line of line protocol must be delimited by a new line (`\n`).

## Pre-process data before writing

Pre-processing data in your write workload can help you avoid [write failures](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/write-data/troubleshoot/#troubleshoot-failures) due to schema conflicts or resource use.
For example, if you have many devices that write to the same measurement, and some devices use different data types for the same field, then you might want to generate an alert or convert field data to fit your schema before you send the data to InfluxDB.

> With Telegraf, you can process data from other services and files and then write it to InfluxDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With [Telegraf](/telegraf/v1/), you can process data from other services and files and then write it to InfluxDB.
```

In addition to processing data with Telegraf's included plugins, you can use the [Execd processor plugin](/telegraf/v1/plugins/#processor-execd) to integrate your own code and external applications.

> The following examples show how to [configure](/telegraf/v1/configuration) the Telegraf agent and [plugins](/telegraf/v1/plugins/) to optimize writes.

Reviewer: For SEO

```suggestion
The following examples show how to [configure the Telegraf agent](/telegraf/v1/configuration) and [plugins](/telegraf/v1/plugins/) to optimize writes.
```

The examples use the [File input plugin](/telegraf/v1/plugins/#input-file) to read data from a file
and use the [InfluxDB v2 output plugin](/telegraf/v1/plugins/#input-influxdb) to write data to a bucket, but you can use any input and output plugin.

### Prerequisites

[Install Telegraf](/telegraf/v1/install/) if you haven't already.

### Filter data from a batch

Use Telegraf and metric filtering to filter data before writing it to InfluxDB.

Configure [metric filters](/telegraf/v1/configuration/#filters) to retain or remove data elements (before processor and aggregator plugins run).

```sh
cat <<EOF >> ./telegraf.conf
  [[inputs.cpu]]
    # Remove the specified fields from points.
    fieldpass = ["usage_system", "usage_idle"]
    # Remove the specified tags from points.
    tagexclude = ["host"]
  [[outputs.influxdb_v2]]
    urls = ["HOST"]
    token = "API_TOKEN"
    organization = ""
    bucket = "BUCKET_NAME"
EOF

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```sh
cat <<EOF >> ./telegraf.conf
  [[inputs.cpu]]
    # Remove the specified fields from points.
    fieldpass = ["usage_system", "usage_idle"]
    # Remove the specified tags from points.
    tagexclude = ["host"]
  [[outputs.influxdb_v2]]
    urls = ["{{< influxdb/host >}}"]
    token = "API_TOKEN"
    organization = ""
    bucket = "BUCKET_NAME"
EOF
```
~~~

> Replace the following:

Reviewer: Missing placeholder values

Author: 🤦

```sh
telegraf --test --config telegraf.conf
```

The output is similar to the following.
For each row of input data, the filters pass the metric name, tags, specified fields, and timestamp.

```text
> cpu,cpu=cpu0 usage_idle=100,usage_system=0 1702067201000000000
...
> cpu,cpu=cpu-total usage_idle=99.80198019802448,usage_system=0.1980198019802045 1702067201000000000
```

### Coerce data types to avoid rejected point errors

Use Telegraf and the [Converter processor plugin](/telegraf/v1/plugins/#processor-converter) to convert field data types to fit your schema.

For example, if you write the sample data in
[Get started home sensor data](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/sample-data/#get-started-home-sensor-data) to a bucket, and then try to write the following batch to the same measurement:

```text
home,room=Kitchen temp=23.1,hum=36.6,co=22.1 1641063600
home,room=Living\ Room temp=22i,hum=36.4,co=17i 1641067200
home,room=Kitchen temp=22.7,hum=36.5,co=26i 1641067200
```

> InfluxDB expects `co` to contain an integer and rejects the point in which `co` contains a floating-point decimal (`22.1`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfluxDB expects `co` to contain an integer value and rejects points with `co` floating-point decimal (`22.1`) values.
```

Use Telegraf and the [Merge aggregator plugin](/telegraf/v1/plugins/#aggregator-merge) to merge points that share the same measurement, tag set, and timestamp.

The following example creates sample data for two series (the combination of measurement, tag set, and timestamp), and then merges points in each series:

1. In your terminal, enter the following command to create the sample data file. The command sets a `grace` variable that you'll use when configuring Telegraf in the next step.

   ```bash
   cat <<EOF > ./home.lp
   home,room=Kitchen temp=23.1 1641063600
   home,room=Kitchen hum=36.6 1641063600
   home,room=Kitchen co=22i 1641063600
   home,room=Living\ Room temp=22.7 1641063600
   home,room=Living\ Room hum=36.4 1641063600
   home,room=Living\ Room co=17i 1641063600
   EOF
   grace_seconds=$(($(date +%s)-1641063000))
   grace="${grace_seconds}s"
   ```

2. Enter the following command to configure Telegraf to parse the file, merge the points, and write the data to a bucket. To merge series, you must specify the following in your Telegraf configuration:

   - the timestamp precision for your input data (for example, `influx_timestamp_precision` for line protocol)

>    - Optional: `aggregators.merge.grace` to extend the window and allow more points to be merged. For demonstration purposes, the following example sets `grace` to a large duration to include the sample data timestamps.

Author: ```suggestion
   - Optional: `aggregators.merge.grace` to extend the window and allow more points to be merged. For demonstration purposes, the following example sets `grace` to a large duration that includes the sample data timestamps.
```

     grace = "$grace"
     ## If true, drops the original metric.
     drop_original = true
   # Writes metrics as line protocol to the InfluxDB v2 API
   [[outputs.influxdb_v2]]
     ## InfluxDB credentials and the bucket to write data to.
     urls = ["https://{{< influxdb/host >}}"]
     token = "API_TOKEN"
     organization = ""
     bucket = "BUCKET_NAME"
   EOF
   ```

3. Enter the following command to run Telegraf for one interval and then exit:

   <!--pytest-codeblocks:cont-->

   <!--before-test
   ```bash
   influx bucket create --name jason-test-create-bucket 2>/dev/null ||:
   ```
   -->

   <!--pytest-codeblocks:cont-->

   ```bash
   # Run once and exit.
   telegraf --once --config telegraf.conf
   ```

   Telegraf writes the following lines:

   <!--pytest-codeblocks:cont-->

   <!--hidden-test
   ```bash
   telegraf --test --config telegraf.conf
   ```
   -->

   <!--pytest-codeblocks:expected-output-->

   ```
   > home,room=Kitchen co=22i,hum=36.6,temp=23.1 1641063600000000000
   > home,room=Living\ Room co=17i,hum=36.4,temp=22.7 1641063600000000000
   ```

<!-- ### Avoid sending duplicate data
  -- Can't get processors.dedup to work as expected.

>   -- The content for this section is in branch https://github.com/influxdata/docs-v2/compare/issue5155-preprocess-with-dedup

Reviewer 2: I responded to your question in slack, but it was due to the timestamps you have on the data. The dedup processor takes into account the timestamp given the dedeup interval.

-->

### Run custom preprocessing code

> Use Telegraf and the [Execd processor plugin](/telegraf/v1/plugins/#processor-execd) to execute code external to Telegraf and then write the processed data.

Reviewer 2: Is there going to be an example here like the others?

Author: > Is there going to be an example here like the others?

Yes, but I realized I didn't have a good write example at hand. Can you point me to one?

Reviewer 2: Essentially the [execd pluin](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/processors/execd) will  send the user line protocol on stdin and expect line protocol back out on stdout. There is a go example in the plugin readme. You could shorten that up to do some arbitrary calculation on a field.
